Feature detection: Replace table with subsections (#24729)
mdn/content: files/en-us/learn/tools_and_testing/cross_browser_testing/feature_detection/index.md

### JavaScript

We already saw an example of a JavaScript feature detection test earlier on. Generally, such tests are done via one of a few common patterns.

Bear in mind though that some features, however, are known to be undetectable — see Modernizr's list of [Undetectables](https://github.com/Modernizr/Modernizr/wiki/Undetectables) from 2016.

Common patterns for detectable features include:

> - member in object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Members of an object
```

  - : Check whether a particular method or property (typically an entry point into using the API or other feature you are detecting) exists in its parent `Object`.

    Our earlier example used this pattern to detect [Geolocation](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Geolocation_API) support by testing the [`navigator`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Navigator) object for a `geolocation` member:

    ```js
    if ("geolocation" in navigator) {
      // Access navigator.geolocation APIs
    }
    ```

> - Property on element

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Properties of an element
```

  - : Create an element in memory using {{domxref("Document.createElement()")}} and then check if a property exists on it.

>     This example shows a way of detecting <a href="/en-US/docs/Web/API/Canvas_API">Canvas</a> support:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This example shows a way of detecting the [Canvas API](en-US/docs/Web/API/Canvas_API) support:
```

Author: Hm, not sure about "...the Canvas API support" — I'd go with either "Canvas API support" (no 'the') or "support for the Canvas API".

Author: I went with the "no-'the'" version.

>     This example shows a way of detecting <a href="/en-US/docs/Web/API/Canvas_API">Canvas</a> support:

Author: ```suggestion
    This example shows a way of detecting [Canvas API](en-US/docs/Web/API/Canvas_API) support:
```

    ```js
    function supports_canvas() {
      return !!document.createElement('canvas').getContext;
    }

    if (supports_canvas()) {
      // Create and draw on canvas elements
    }
    ```

    > **Note:** The double `NOT` in the above example (`!!`) is a way to force a return value to become a "proper" boolean value, rather than a {{glossary("Truthy")}}/{{glossary("Falsy")}} value that may skew the results.

> - Method on element return value

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Specific return values of a method on an element
```

  - : Create an element in memory using {{domxref("Document.createElement()")}} and then check if a method exists on it. If it does, check what value it returns. See the feature test in [Dive into HTML Video Format detection](https://diveinto.html5doctor.com/detect.html#video-formats) for an example of this pattern.

> - Property on element retains value

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Retention of specific values for a property of an element
```

Author: Hm. How about "Retention of assigned value for a property of an element"? If it's an element we created, the fact that we're looking for _the value we set_ is arguably the more central point, vs. it being a specific value.

Alternate wording: "Retention of assigned property value by an element"

Reviewer: Feel free to update it.

Author: I applied the alternate wording I'd included above.

> - Property on element retains value

Author: ```suggestion
- Retention of assigned property value by an element
```

### JavaScript

We already saw an example of a JavaScript feature detection test earlier on. Generally, such tests are done via one of a few common patterns.

Bear in mind though that some features, however, are known to be undetectable — see Modernizr's list of [Undetectables](https://github.com/Modernizr/Modernizr/wiki/Undetectables) from 2016.

Common patterns for detectable features include:

> #### If member in object
> 
> Check whether a certain method or property (typically an entry point into using the API or other feature you are detecting for) exists in its parent `Object`.
> 
> Our earlier example used this pattern to detect [Geolocation](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Geolocation_API) support by testing the [`navigator`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Navigator) object for a `geolocation` member:
> 
> ```js
> if ("geolocation" in navigator) {
>   // Access navigator.geolocation APIs
> }
> ```
> 
> #### Property on element
> 
> Create an element in memory using {{domxref("Document.createElement()")}} and then check if a property exists on it.
> 
> This example shows a way of detecting <a href="/en-US/docs/Web/API/Canvas_API">Canvas</a> support:
> 
> ```js
> function supports_canvas() {
>   return !!document.createElement('canvas').getContext;
> }
> 
> if (supports_canvas()) {
>   // Create and draw on canvas elements
> }
> ```
> 
> > **Note:** The double `NOT` in the above example (`!!`) is a way to force a return value to become a "proper" boolean value, rather than a {{glossary("Truthy")}}/{{glossary("Falsy")}} value that may skew the results.
> 

Reviewer: I agree the table was not great, but one problem we have now is that the next header _matchMedia_ is at the same level as the former content of the table.

Let's try to use a list:
````suggestion
- member in object
  - : Check whether a particular method or property (typically an entry point into using the API or other feature you are detecting) exists in its parent `Object`.

  Our earlier example used this pattern to detect [Geolocation](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Geolocation_API) support by testing the [`navigator`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Navigator) object for a `geolocation` member:

  ```js
  if ("geolocation" in navigator) {
    // Access navigator.geolocation APIs
  }
  ```

- Property on element
- : Create an element in memory using {{domxref("Document.createElement()")}} and then check if a property exists on it.

  This example shows a way of detecting <a href="/en-US/docs/Web/API/Canvas_API">Canvas</a> support:

  ```js
  function supports_canvas() {
    return !!document.createElement('canvas').getContext;
  }

  if (supports_canvas()) {
    // Create and draw on canvas elements
  }
  ```

  > **Note:** The double `NOT` in the above example (`!!`) is a way to force a return value to become a "proper" boolean value, rather than a {{glossary("Truthy")}}/{{glossary("Falsy")}} value that may skew the results.

````

Author: > I agree the table was not great, but one problem we have now is that the next header _matchMedia_ is at the same level as the former content of the table.

Yeah, I did spot that. I had originally set up the headings as level _5_ (with an intro H4 before), which avoided **that** issue. But H5s are clearly styled for a specific purpose @ MDN (they're all-capsed, for starters), so I dropped them back to H4s. Headings did seem a little heavy for each item.

I'm comfortable with the list! It seems like a good solution. _Anything_ but that awful table is an improvement, IMHO.

Reviewer: So let's commit these (I'll do it) and we will see how it looks.

> #### Method on element return value
> 
> Create an element in memory using {{domxref("Document.createElement()")}} and then check if a method exists on it. If it does, check what value it returns. See the feature test in <a href="https://diveinto.html5doctor.com/detect.html#video-formats">Dive into HTML Video Format detection</a> for an example of this pattern.
> 
> #### Property on element retains value
> 
> Create an element in memory using {{domxref("Document.createElement()")}}, set a property to a certain value, then check to see if the value is retained. See the feature test in <a href="https://diveinto.html5doctor.com/detect.html#input-types">Dive into HTML <code>&#x3C;input></code> type detection</a> for an example of this pattern.

Reviewer: (Continuing)
```suggestion
- Method on element return value

  - : Create an element in memory using {{domxref("Document.createElement()")}} and then check if a method exists on it. If it does, check what value it returns. See the feature test in [Dive into HTML Video Format detection](https://diveinto.html5doctor.com/detect.html#video-formats) for an example of this pattern.

#### Property on element retains value

Create an element in memory using {{domxref("Document.createElement()")}}, set a property to a specific value, then check to see if the value is retained. See the feature test in [Dive into HTML \<input> type detection](https://diveinto.html5doctor.com/detect.html#input-types) for an example of this pattern.
```

(The list will look better in the preview and in production, as this is one of the few extensions to GitHub-flavored Markdown that MDN uses)
